---
layout: post
title: "Programmable Ultrasonic Sensor Array (PUlSAr)"
categories: projects
date: 2017-12-04 10:02:45 +0000
permalink: /PUlSAr
published: false
---
<strong>PUlSAr</strong> is a motion-detecting device which uses an ultrasonic sensor to detect nearby objects. This project is one step above the basics in microcontroller circuitry and programming.

<h2>Materials</h2>
To get started, you'll need:
<ul>
<li>Access to the [Arduino Web Editor] or [Arduino IDE]</li>
<li>The PUlSAr Kit, Including:
  <ul>
  <li>(1) Arduino or Arduino-Compatible Microcontroller</li>
  <li>(1) USB Microcontroller Power Cord</li>
  <li>(1) Solderless Breadboard</li>
  <li>(1) Breadboard Ultrasonic Sensor</li>
  <li>(1) Breadboard Buzzer</li>
  <li>(2) Breadboard LEDs</li>
  <li>(2) 220 Ohm Resistors (Not Shown)</li>
  <li>(11) Jumper Wires</li>
  </ul>
</li>
</ul>

If you'd like to build PUlSAr yourself, you can purchase a full, unassembled kit [here]({{site.baeurl}}{% link purchases/purchasePUlSAr.md %}). 

If you already have an Arduino-compatible microcontroller, or any of the other PUlSAr components, you can buy the remaining items from [this list].

<h2>Step 1: Unpacking Your Kit</h2>

Once you have received your PUlSAr kit, be sure to verify that you have the components listed above. 

I recommend that you test your microcontroller before you begin. Plug it in to an open USB port or directly into the wall and verify that it turns on. If you are using the Hiletgo UNO microcontroller that comes with the kit, you will need to download the [CH340 driver] before you can successfully upload scripts to your board. Once you have done this, open the Arduino IDE and navigate to Tools>... Change the port to COM4. Your microcontroller is ready to go. 

<h2>Step 2: Assembly</h2>

Begin by placing the Ultrasonic Sensor on the Breadboard. Note that the sensor has four pins: a VCC pin a TRIG pin, an ECHO pin, and a GND pin. Connect the 5V pin on the microcontroller to VCC, Digital I/O Pin No. 10 to TRIG, No. 11 to ECHO, and wire the GND pin to an empty row on the Breadboard.

Next, connect the Buzzer to the Breadboard. Wire Digital I/O Pin No. 9 to the positive terminal of the Buzzer, and connect the other terminal to the same Breadboard row as the GND wire from the Ultrasonic Sensor.
